Add Django instrumentation (#593)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-python: docs/examples/django/README.rst

OpenTelemetry Django Instrumentation Example
============================================

This shows how to use `opentelemetry-ext-django` to automatically instrument a
Django app.

For more user convenience, a Django app is already provided in this directory.

Preparation
-----------

This example will be executed in a separate virtual environment:

.. code-block::

    $ mkdir django_auto_instrumentation
    $ virtualenv django_auto_instrumentation
    $ source django_auto_instrumentation/bin/activate

Installation
------------

.. code-block::

    $ pip install opentelemetry-api
    $ pip install opentelemetry-sdk
    $ pip install opentelemetry-auto-instrumentation
    $ pip install opentelemetry-ext-django
    $ pip install requests

Execution
---------

Execution of the Django app
...........................

Set these environment variables first:

#. `export OPENTELEMETRY_PYTHON_DJANGO_INSTRUMENT=True`
#. `export DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE=instrumentation_example.settings`

> Clone the `opentelemetry-python` repository and go to `opentelemetry-python/ext/opentelemetry-ext-django/example`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clone the `opentelemetry-python` repository and go to `opentelemetry-python/docs/examples/django`.
```

Once there run this command:

> `opentelemetry-python-autoinstrumentation python3 manage.py runserver`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`opentelemetry-auto-instrumentation python3 manage.py runserver`
```

output similar to this one:

.. code-block::

    {
        "name": "home_page_view",
        "context": {
            "trace_id": "0xed88755c56d95d05a506f5f70e7849b9",
            "span_id": "0x0a94c7a60e0650d5",
            "trace_state": "{}"
        },
        "kind": "SpanKind.SERVER",
        "parent_id": "0x3096ef92e621c22d",
        "start_time": "2020-04-26T01:49:57.205833Z",
        "end_time": "2020-04-26T01:49:57.206214Z",
        "status": {
            "canonical_code": "OK"
        },
        "attributes": {
            "component": "http",
            "http.method": "GET",
            "http.server_name": "localhost",
            "http.scheme": "http",
            "host.port": 8000,
            "http.host": "localhost:8000",
            "http.url": "http://localhost:8000/?param=hello",
            "net.peer.ip": "127.0.0.1",
            "http.flavor": "1.1",
            "http.status_text": "OK",
            "http.status_code": 200
        },
        "events": [],
        "links": []
    }

The last output shows spans automatically generated by the OpenTelemetry Django
Instrumentation package.

References
----------

> * `OpenTelemetry Project <https://opentelemetry.io/>`_

Reviewer: would be worth adding a link to django here

Author: Fixed

OpenTelemetry Django Instrumentation Example
============================================

This shows how to use `opentelemetry-ext-django` to automatically instrument a
Django app.

For more user convenience, a Django app is already provided in this directory.

Preparation
-----------

This example will be executed in a separate virtual environment:

.. code-block::

>     $ mkdir django_auto_instrumentation

Reviewer 2: I think the examples in the docs should show programmatic instrumentation instead of automatic. It is difficult to tell which parts belong to auto-instrumentation and which parts are part of `opentelemetry-ext-django`.

Author: Fixed
